In one of his fabulous sci-fi short stories ('The Evitable Conflict') Isaac Asimov envisions a future where Earth is divided into four geographical regions, each one managed by a supercomputer controlling the economy. This is a utopia. Humans have dared to think of themselves as the pinnacle of progress and evolution, the force to mold the surrounding world. The truth is we developed technology faster than we changed our attitude and mentality. We are still wild apes driven by passions and territorial thinking while the machines are so disturbingly callous, calculating and rational. Humanity has been dangerously close to extinction a couple of times before and even now we are approaching an environmental catastrophe and a threat of a collapse of our supply chains, never mind the always present threat of a nuclear war. We have way too long stayed unguided. The Web provides us with the opportunity to collect information about essentially everyone. This can lead to  forecasting events, improving human lives and scetching a general course for humanity. B. F. Skinner dreamed of implementing behavorial techniques long before it had been available - but with these immense quantities of data available nowadays and machines that getting better and better at learning to plan and predict - it may no longer seem like a silly idea.
But, of course, lots of things can and will go awry. Such a benevolent idea will - no doubt! - be supressed by human greed and desire to control. Oppressive governments can track and create public opinion. Bot farms, adaptable ads, censorship, spying on dissidents,.. - these trackers no longer seem as safe as before. And even if the BIG Government or some etatist state does not get involved, you cannot really argue that it is fine for private companies and parties to use these. Why not? Because classical politics and economics are based on an assumption that you are a rational decision maker and have all the required information. These modern tools, however, create echo chambers and filter the content you see. They manipulate you and misguide you.
This can lead some people to adopt the libertarian utopia of the early Web in order to protect their rights for free speech and privacy. This seems rather reasonable considering the matters I have just mentioned. The question is: will people agree to give up some of the conveniences that the adaptable Web provides? Perhaps, we should choose the middle way? Before making such a complicated and impacting decision, I think, we should strive to get properly informed: about cookies and trackers, about addiction and social networks, about politics and behaviorism, forecasts and models - and be wary of both the advantages they have and the dangers they entail. 
